Backward chaining is a method of inference in first-order logic that starts with the goal and works backward to find the set of conditions that must be true in order for the goal to be true. In other words, we start with the conclusion that we want to prove and then work backward to determine what needs to be true in order to prove that conclusion.

Backward chaining is also known as goal-driven reasoning or top-down reasoning, because it starts with the goal and uses that goal to drive the reasoning process. Backward chaining can be useful in situations where we have a specific goal that we want to achieve and we want to determine what conditions must be met in order to achieve that goal.

The process of backward chaining can be broken down into the following steps:

Start with the goal: We begin by identifying the goal that we want to achieve. This goal can be represented using a first-order logic statement, such as a predicate or proposition.

Apply inference rules: Next, we apply inference rules to the goal to determine what conditions must be true in order to achieve the goal. Inference rules are logical rules that allow us to make new conclusions based on the known facts. For example, we might use the modus ponens rule, which says that if we know that A implies B and we know that A is true, then we can conclude that B is true.

Repeat the process: Once we determine what conditions must be true in order to achieve the goal, we repeat the process with each of those conditions until we have identified all of the conditions that must be true in order to achieve the goal.

Let's look at an example to illustrate how backward chaining works:

Suppose we have the following knowledge base:

If it's raining, then the ground is wet.
If the ground is wet, then the shoes get muddy.
Our goal is to determine whether the shoes are muddy. To achieve this goal, we can use backward chaining to work backward from the goal to the set of conditions that must be true in order for the goal to be true. Starting with the goal that the shoes are muddy, we can apply the second inference rule to conclude that the ground is wet. This gives us a new goal:

The ground is wet.
Next, we can apply the first inference rule to conclude that it's raining. This gives us a new goal:

It's raining.
Now we have identified all of the conditions that must be true in order for the goal to be true. Note that in this example, we only needed to apply two inference rules to reach our goal. In more complex examples, we may need to apply many more inference rules to work backward from the goal to the set of conditions that must be true.

Backward chaining can be a powerful tool for problem solving and decision making, especially in situations where we have a specific goal that we want to achieve. However, like forward chaining, it can be computationally expensive, especially when dealing with large knowledge bases.